Okay.
So let's pick up right where we left off in the previous lesson.
So I still have my five lines of code and we're declaring a variable as well as a type on each line.
In this lesson, I want to talk about a special TypeScript feature called Type Inference.
Now the word infer means to deduce or to figure out from evidence.
So what does type inference mean in regards to TypeScript?
It means that TypeScript can figure out a type if we give it some data, if we give it something to
work with.
So let's focus on this first example right here on line number one.
And what I'm going to do is remove my explicit type annotation from the previous lesson.
So I'm just going to get rid of the colon syntax and the string and what we can do to any value either
in this editor or in verse code when we're working with TypeScript, is we can hover our mouse over
a name and it'll pop up with this little modal and it'll tell us what the data type is.
So you can see that TypeScript has already figured out that first name is a string.
And of course the reason it's been able to do that is because we've provided first name with an initial
starter value.
So once TypeScript sees a string of Borris or any string for that matter, it knows that first names
should be a string.
It doesn't need to be told explicitly because it can figure it out logically and the same rules apply
from the previous lesson.
So TypeScript is going to complain if we try to assign first name to an invalid type like a number,
it's going to complain.
For example, if we try to invoke a method that does not exist, like push and it's going to complain
if we try to do a illegal operation like multiplication, right?
Same rules apply because the first name is still a string type in typescript understanding.
And thus, you know, it's good enough to proceed with the same annotation on the same logic, right?
And so the general rule, the general best practice that you'll hear people say is if TypeScript is
able to figure it out correctly, and there's really no reason to explicitly annotate a type in comparison
if TypeScript is unable to figure it out or if it gets it incorrect, that's when it's a really good
idea to be explicit and use the colon annotation to tell TypeScript, to tell it to be a little bit
smarter, right.
To to make it understand something that we we understand that it does not.
So as another example here with age aid is another perfect example.
We are assigning a value of 30.
That's enough for TypeScript to figure out that age is a number so we can get rid of that syntax.
And right here you can see TypeScript understands that it's a number.
Now, here's an interesting example here with our Boolean.
This is a different example because we do not have an initial value.
And the Boolean here is critical because it tells TypeScript that is handsome will be of type boolean.
If we remove the type annotation and we do not provide a starter value, then there is no way for TypeScript
to figure out that is handsome is a boolean and if I hover my mouse you're going to see it thinks the
type is a special type called any which we'll talk about in a lesson or two.
But the key takeaway is it's not a boolean because TypeScript has no way of knowing its ability.
So in this situation, this is the kind of scenario where if if we're not providing an additional value,
it really makes sense to communicate.
TypeScript that we expect is handsome to be a boolean even if we cannot provide the initial starter
value.
All right.
Now, undefined and null are another two interesting situations because it turns out if we remove that
type annotations right here, TypeScript is also going to assume the any type and that is because undefined
another kind of these values that are designed to indicate the absence of something or the the like,
the lack of something being present in your program.
And sometimes that lack of absence can then be replaced with a solid value, a concrete value, like
a number or an integer, etc..
So when it comes to defining things like undefined and null, you have to be careful when you remove
your type annotations because otherwise TypeScript may assume that they have the any type.
So I'm going to keep this code from lines 3 to 5 to serve as an example.
As always, if you're unsure, what you can do is hover your mouse over any name in your program and
it will tell you what TypeScript thinks it is or what we've told it it is.
And if it's correct, then you do not need to do the additional annotation.
And if it's incorrect, then you can provide more clarity by using the colon syntax that we talked about.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.